---
title: You are the local source for 'Gratitude Reminders'
date: 2018-02-28
summary: Reflection upon 8 years in the Photography Industry
tags: [Gratitude]
images: ['/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_Header.jpg']
---

> This post is my reflection upon 8 years in the Photography Industry. I hope you enjoy it.
> â€”Mr. Bloom!

For the last 7 years, I've had the fortunate opportunity to work closely with
the Professional Portrait Photography industry. In the process, I have viewed
photography on the websites of thousands of Photographers across the US, Canada,
many other countries. Their work primarily covering family, children, newborn,
and wedding.

This has given me an appreciation of their true purpose, one that I may have
completely missed (_or at least not fully appreciated_) had my life gone down a
different path.

> "To capture moments in time while bringing out the true personalities of the
> subjects"

There is nothing profound about that observation. It exists in the minds of
countless Photographers and Non-Photographers alike. However, the appreciation,
awareness, and appropriate value of that mission is where it might not be as
natural.

Like many things, if you don't take the time to actively engage with an idea,
you may miss the key benefit of that idea altogether. ![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_1.jpg)

> First year of The Organic Bloom. Just Andrea & I â€” Brenda Horan Photography

We recently moved into a new home and in the process have been updating our wall
frames. This post was prompted by the way in which my wife chose to hang the
frames in our hallway.

The collection of images in the hallway are basically a history of our small
family since the beginning of The Organic Bloom. It's hard to walk past it
without being reminded of the really great people I have around me. Even if
that's while rushing out to settle a dispute early in the morning when I'd
rather be in bed. Ha!

Each portrait is a different slice of time and has different memories attached
to it but they all come together to solidify a gratitude that sticks with me
through the day.

You'll have to forgive the obvious Dad sentimentality that is likely to show
through in the remainder of this post ðŸ˜„

![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_2.jpg)

> Ellie has now arrived on the scene â€” Brenda Horan Photography

Let's get a bit philosophical for a moment. In what ways do you as a
Photographer convey to your clients (or potential clients) the value they are
going to receive in the years (and maybe decades) to come? I think that one of
the clear tangible results is _**Gratitude**_.

While not everyone (or anyone) has a perfect family situation, countless study
after countless study finds Gratitude to improve life in basically every
category. And often there is much to be grateful for in regards to family.

Being grateful has benefits in your personal life, career, social circle, etc.
It's very easy to slide into a place of not accurately appreciating the life
situation around you. But I would argue that having really large images on your
walls that you can't help but notice is a very good reminder.

![](./Sooter_Family_3.jpg)

> We're in a holding pattern with just Ellie â€” Vanessa Campbell Photography

And this is where you come in (**\_\_\_\_**) photographer (Family, child,
newborn, wedding, etc). You can (get to) help people put big reminders of
beneficial people on their walls. You can help your clients all but certainly
put reminders to start their day with Gratitude. Where they can't miss it. Where
it stares them down every day. Even if the day was rough before. Even if the
family has splits and strife. Even if the children aren't quite appreciating
their siblings or parents like they should. The finished product you deliver can
have a lasting benefit far greater than being just a decoration that matches
their living room.

![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_4.jpg)

> Mac arrives to make it more interesting. â€” Vanessa Campbell Photography

I won't be the first person to talk about how digital photos in the world have
made some drastic changes in how photography is bought and used. As a matter of
fact, I'm a huge fan of Google Photos and being able to search years of photos
for some specific thing or event. But, we also run the risk of having so many
photos that we can't even figure out how to appreciate them.

So this is where you come in. We've established that people need big reminders
on their wall of the people that are special in their life. Your passion to
capture specific moments in time is just the event needed to trigger a display
of this year's snapshot in time.

![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_5.jpg)

> 2 is enough right? â€” Vanessa Campbell Photography

But we all know this isn't as easy and straightforward as it should be. You'll
get busy. Your clients will get busy. Details slip through the cracks. And
consistently, people go through the effort of having their portraits done with
you and those wonderful photos end up in a drawer on a fancy flash drive. This
is a tragedy of monumental proportion. One that you need to be aware of and have
a plan of action to make sure it doesn't happen to your clients.

![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_6.jpg)

> Nope, apparently not, Poppy shows up to add to the mix! â€” Destiny Photography

I'm obviously biased toward picture frames since I own a company that makes
them, but I don't care how photos get up on a wall. There are many other nice
photography options. Helping your clients figure out the print options available
is great and a service you should definitely be knowledgeable about. In the end,
any printing method is better than them never being hung and remaining on a
flash drive (See the atrocity mentioned above).

_*So make the following a Non-Negotiable:*_

> "Clients end up with something they will see on a regular basis on their wall"

Anything less is letting your customers miss out on a huge benefit that you can
provide, passion and what makes you unique.

![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_7.jpg)

> Oh, my babies are no longer babies. They ask lots of real questions!

At the beginning of The Organic Bloom we made the decision to work exclusively
with Professional Portrait Photographers. That decision has had Pros and Cons.
However, one of the ideals that have reinforced my resolve is that I've really
enjoyed supporting the local photography businesses in towns across America (and
Canada, UK, and Australia to some extent).

The goal of promoting the value of photographers by redirecting consumers to
their local photographer using our vendor locator
(https://www.theorganicbloom.com/locator) has been a part of that but the
reasoning is much more important. You have something to offer and we want to
direct people your way so they can get that. Your passion is unique and it
provides the opportunity for big giant wall gratitude reminders. I look forward
to your comments below.

> I'm so grateful for mine â€” Jason

![](/static/images/you-are-the-local-source-for-gratitude-reminders/Sooter_Family_8.jpg)

> Our family 7 years later. I'm so grateful for the record of this progression.
> â€” Vanessa Campbell Photography
